# LIDAR: Git (Gitlab flavor)

----------

[HOME]({{ site.baseurl }}/) || [LIDAR]({{ site.baseurl }}/lidar.html) 

----------

Git is essential for project management, offering version control and change tracking capabilities. It enables parallel 
development with branching and merging, facilitating collaboration and integration. Git's centralized repository ensures 
up-to-date code sharing and rollback options. It streamlines distributed team collaboration and provides a safety net 
for bug fixes and stability. Git's importance lies in enhancing collaboration, version control, and risk management in 
project management.

As a Scrum Master, I value its tools for project management. The integrated issue tracking system and Kanban boards 
streamline task management. CI/CD pipelines automate build, testing, and deployment. Merge requests facilitate code 
collaboration, while repository management features offer control over the codebase. GitLab's integrations enhance 
project management by integrating with other tools. GitLab's utility lies in efficient task management, automated 
workflows, code collaboration, and seamless integration with project management tools.

As an 8-member SCRUM/Agile team, GitLab's tools greatly support our workflow. The issue tracking system and Kanban 
boards streamline task management. Merge requests enable efficient code collaboration and reviews. CI/CD pipelines 
automate builds and deployments. GitLab's repository features facilitate concurrent work and version control. The 
collaboration tools foster seamless communication and coordination. GitLab's assistance in our SCRUM/Agile workflow 
includes task management, code collaboration, automated workflows, and efficient team coordination.

[//]: # (There are many tools in Gitlab, here are a few that were very useful during the project.)

[//]: # (Issues, Sub-tasks, Dependencies, and Dependents. Issue/Task Assignment)
[//]: # (Image of Issues)

[//]: # (Burndown Charts)

[//]: # (Merge Requests)

[//]: # (CICD, Pipelines, SAST)

Although gitlab was useful, due to our project's non-standard structure, the project ended up being split between 3 
different repositories. One for the web page, one for the web server, and one for the mobile app. As the project manager 
of a large-scale project that required managing three separate GitLab repositories, I encountered several challenges. 
Coordinating the development and synchronization of different components across multiple repositories proved to be 
complex and time-consuming. Ensuring consistency and compatibility between the repositories became a significant task, 
as changes made in one repository often had implications for the others. Collaboration among team members working on 
different repositories posed a challenge, as it required effective communication and coordination to align their 
efforts. Additionally, the sheer scale of the project, exceeding the capacity of our 8-member team, further compounded 
the difficulties of managing the repositories. Despite these challenges, implementing proper version control practices, 
utilizing GitLab's project management features, and establishing clear communication channels helped mitigate some of the 
complexities associated with managing multiple repositories.

----------

 Â© {{ site.copyright }} --- {{ site.author }} --- Version: {{ site.version }}.
